--- NOTES ---





--- STEPS/PROJECT COMPONENTS --- 
Documenting the major components and steps taken for this project.

1. Setting up and animating player character: 
    - Used a sprite sheet containing anims for up,down,left,right, idle and walking.
Sliced these sheets to fit character size and assigned the sprites to playerInput system.
    - Used playerMovement script function to assign variables for input system movement, 
 used blend 2D nodes in animator to transition between states.


2. Player camera setup:
    - Cinemachine is a package, this hijacks the main camera and makes camera setup incredibly easy. 
This makes it all UI/component changes rather than code. Set it to 'follow' the player.
    - Applied a polygonal bounding box to a cinemachine 'confiner' component which has all 
the stopping and damping options you'd want...

VSCODE ALT CHANGES TAB, while ctrl spaces fwd-back ????


3. Assigned a tilemap, tilepalette, and tilesets:
    - This system in Unity is very powerful. Created a layer for ground, walk-in-front, player, walk-behind, etc.
This means creating a tilepalette for some set of tiles, then creating a layer and painting those in the scene.
    - Once assigned, multiple layers can be drawn and deleted individually. This makes change/iteration very fast 
(if assigned correctly)
    - Create a tile-atlas to compress tilesets, this significantly reduces draw calls and improves performance... 
This may reduce screen tearing too.

4. UI system:
    - I am using Unity's Canvas system, which is robust and allows for creating grids for UI elements.
The menu constructed is 4 tabs with associated pages. The tabs use an image (just an imported sprite) with a 
textmeshpro object inside of it.
    - A script attached to the tab parent object cycles through the tabs to set one active and the others inactive.
These tabs have an event trigger component which listens for PointerDown, and when heard, activates the given tab and its 
associated page.


5. Sound design notes:
After a bit of research it looks like the answer to sound, for me, will be to use Unity's built-in tools
until my second game where I will transition to making things with REAPER. REAPER is a lightweight DAW 
that sounds like it doesn't bog down dev time. 

6. Basic save system:
    - File is stored on disk at some specified location in json, txt or an encoded format. This file
is just a set of states of given variables, like player.position and current level, etc.
    - Unity has a method to reach this location on disk, a savegame fxn writes there, a loadgame
fxn retrieves info from there and sets those values in the game...

7. Getting sound in the game:
    - All sounds in this tutorial project come from some library or outside source.
    - Sfx is managed via a singleton, which is set up to allow easy input from anywhere in the project.
The singleton references a dictionary, where sounds are stored in lists, if more than 1 entry per list,
then a random sound is chosen from that list. This system handles all sfx. The user adds sfx with a 
single line in any other scipt.
    - We have a very similar process in place for music management.
    - Also discovered "pixabay" a site where you can get royalty-free sfx, pictures, music, etc. for games


8. Scriptable Objects:
    - I was using classes/tables to define data objs in p8, in Unity, the best way to replicate this, in terms
of performance and design is to create "scriptable objects". This is the Unity way of changing:
runtime objects -> in-editor assets
    - Critical for Unity dev: Once the scriptable object is created, I can tweak its info IN UNITY, rather than in-code.
    - This is a system I want to use for my rule-based BlockyBandit game. This is exactly what 
the tile-based, input-driven simulation will be using.
"Think of them as editable, reusable rule assets your simulation reads when it runs a step."

9. Scene transitions:
    - This is a way to change player position via a boundary. We use a "waypoint" object which we can set wherever
we want, to act as a trigger. Once crossed, we switch player position and corresponding camera bound.
    - Fade transition: 
There is a UI-panel obj that has component canvasGroup on it. This has "alpha" param. We use this to fade between 0-1
In a dedicated FadeIn and FadeOut fxns inside a FadeController singleton. This way, we can call our FadeController.FadeIn or Out
from anywhere.  


9. One-to-many animation system:
    - Using a "sprite-library" component, an entity's entire sprite set can be saved out with each state
and those states' sprite sets. By giving an entity a "sprite-resolver" component AND ensuring the animation for that sprite
refers to the sprite-library presets you made, NOT the sprites themselves, the sprite library can be switched out ON THE FLY.
    - Kurtsgesagt, if a sprite library is set up with the same mappings and animation timings as another, then I can switch
them out with one another as needed. Testing NPC designs with full anim, is as simple as switching between libraries...


BB. Full object workflow:
-> Gridded (scene-snapping OR grid+Tilemap) scene.
-> Folder storing prefab for actor types.
-> Each prefab references a scriptable object for attributes.
-> Drag and drop prefabs into scene.
Basically instant iteration/testing of puzzles and levels...

BB. Level runner workflow:
Instead of many scenes, a better way, is one of the following:
Prefab for each level -> loaded in via some scripting
Level Scriptable Object -> Contains all data
Either way, the goal is to create levels in tilemap fast, with drag and drop actors, 
but save and load all this without the need for 50 scenes.


##### TO RESEARCH
Rule Tiling -> A system so that you do not need to place all tiles yourself, 
it draws in the correct/preset tiles when painting.

Shaders... It would be good to know some basic shader maths and algorithms.
Where do people find custom shaders, how are they implemented in Unity...?

Interfaces ?
#####


--- NOTES ---

Layers in 2D, for 3D top-down sensibility:
We split sprites into layers...


--- STEPS/PROJECT COMPONENTS --- 
Documenting the major components and steps taken for this project.

1. Move system...
Changes to the p8 prototype:

-   There are still only two states in-game, player move, and idle.
This state-machine is my "simulation-state" 
The logic for next move is found/calculated, and that movement is executed on 
next player turn. This means actions will be more discrete. Flow looks like:

player presses input ->
loop actors to execute stored commands (animations play) ->
resolutions (actor dies, loses sight, etc.) ->
loop through actors to calculate next move based on current conditions ->
wait for player input ->

Higher level state machine "game state"
    Playing
    Paused
    GameOver
    Victory
    Menu
    Loading 


--------------------
--- Other ideas ----
--------------------





------------------------
-- Project priorities --
------------------------

I can potentially use AI or other people's art for every aspect of my game.
I need to decide on which lines I'm willing to cross/ which aspects of the game
I want to have complete artistic control over.

Priorities:
- For game-dev understanding and future dev work, I should have a full understanding of basic systems, 
and the code which links those systems. In practical terms, I don't want to use any complete solutions 
for this project. If I do, I should understand them completely.

- Code: The reality is, without AI, this project will take a very long time. I would need several series ot tutorials. 
With AI, I will be able to code everything or almost everything necessary. I should use these 
tools and stop feeling bad about it... HOWEVER, without actually taking SEPARATE time to understand how these things
work, I won't feel good about myself as a dev. I should ask myself the following:
"Could I thoroughly explain what the code and systems created by AI are doing and how they are doing it?"
"Could I recreate this myself, without AI, provided I had much more time and energy?"
If YES to both, I should not feel bad. If NO, then I need to seriously look at my code and systems, 
until I can answer affirmatively.

- Art: This is my first commercial game. Perhaps it's okay to be using assets that I buy from someone else.
The best solution here, might be to experiment with creation of 2D top-down assets with asesprite, while also
buying assets, to understand the process. 

- SFX & Music: For this project, does it make sense to create my own music/sfx? 
Sfx, definitely not, I should find and use existing assets for this. For music, 
I should create my own tracks, toward the end of the project, and experiment with 
REAPER-Unity workflow. This should come when I already have most of my project done, because I don't want 
to get bogged down.





------------------
--- C# Notes  ----
------------------

A class can only inherit from one base class, BUT it can also implement any number of interfaces.
This means that the following is totally valid:
public class MyClass : MonoBehavior, ISomeInterface, ISomeOtherInterface

The different definition of a function in many different places, that you might get with an interface is called,
polymorphism. 

This abstracts away logic within the player class that is asking, 
"is there an actor on this tile?"

If there is an actor, it calls OnPlayerMoveInto, but the version of that function that it calls will be different for every actor...
Ex: 
In Crate.cs, the function defines a push and all the relevant push mechanics.
On Finish tile, it will define success state.
